# Group Project in Database System I
Authors: Tony Hoang, Yaohua Chang, Thomas Duffy

This repositiory contains source code and test scripts for the Final project in
CSC I1000 Databases I course at City College. The aim was to build a fully functional
database that can handle multiple tables which have at most 4 attributes. This
tables are grouped in a database and cross-table dependencies and within table
constraints, based on Boolean conditions and functional dependencies, are checked
when the user adds tuples to them. Below is an overview of the classes used to make
this functionality possible.

### Attribute
_Defined in attribute.py_
This class defines the attribute objects which are added to a Table object to represent
the columns. An attribute has an internal ordering (alphabetically) in order to sort
a table. Furthermore, value constraints can be set (e.g. values >= 5 only), which
will then be checked upon adding tuples to the table.

### Table
_Defined in table.py_
This class defines the table objects that are containers of attributes (defined above)
and the tuples that represent the atomic values of those attributes. Upon creating a
table object the user can define functional dependencies using `add_fd()` where an
FD has the form 'A->B' and they can be removed with `remove_fd()`. Multi-value
dependencies can be added using `add_mvd()` where an MVD has the form 'A->->B' and
they can be removed using `remove_mvd()`. The user can then define boolean conditions
for the attributes using `add_boolean_conditions()`. This completes the setup for a table
object.

Given that a user has defined a table, now they can generate all candidate keys based
on the functional dependencies using `get_keys()`. The `master_key` attribute of each
table defines the singular key and can be set explicitly by `user_define_key()` where
the user can set one or have it picked at random. Then, the normal form of the table
is generated by `get_normal_form()`.

Finally, the user has the ability to add tuples to the table using the `add_tuple()`
function. Here, both foreign keys for other tables in the database along with conditional
checks are performed. The user can get back a specific tuple by its key using
`get_tuple()` and they can be removed by `remove_tuple()`. Further searching and sorting
are provided by `group_by()` which returns the groups within a certain attribute or
by `get_tuple_conditions()` where the user can filter out certain values.

### Database
_Defined in database.py_
A database is the container for multiple table objects, and thus defines their relationship
with one another. This allows for the ability to perform foreign key checks. The
user adds tables by `add_table()` and can remove them by `remove_table()`. A cross-table
dependency check is performed here. Additionally, a database can be written to a .txt
document by `write_database()` or a specific table by `write_table()`.

### Testing/Examples
<< COMPLETE >>
